All right let's go ahead and animate our button now.
So the first thing we want to do to create an animation in Photoshop is add in a timeline line the way
you do that is by coming up to window then coming down to timeline and selecting that.
So now we have a nice little timeline down here at the bottom where we can add in frames for our animation.
Next what we want to do is we want to add in our second frame so we're going to come over here at the
bottom where it looks like a new layer icon but it's going to add in a frame.
Once we click it.
So now the way frames work in Photoshop is whatever layers you have turned on on that layer.
That's what's going to be shown.
So on our first one we want to turn off this top layer so we can only see this one.
And then in the next layer you'll notice that it changes the second layer.
That's because anything you do to the first layer at it's going to apply to all of them.
So now that we're in the second layer we need to turn off this frame one folder and turn on this frame
to folder.
So now we come back to our frames and switch between them by clicking on them you can see what the animation
will play like.
And then we can go ahead and play that with the play button.
And right now I have it set to one frame per second.
So now if you wanted to let's say this is going to be used in an app you can time your finger and pretend
like you're pressing the button to see what that feels like.
Not in real life but feels like visually when you press that button.
Now if your animation is playing way too fast what you need to do is you need to pause it and then you
need to select both your layers by holding down shift and selecting them and then you need to click
where it says one second and you need to change this from whatever it's set to.
It might be set to zero seconds.
So you want to click one second or 1.0 and then also if it's not playing forever you need to come down
here where it says forever and you're going to change it from once to a forever loop and then it'll
start playing over and over again.
All right let's go ahead and create our spreadsheet now.
A spreadsheet is just a document that your game can use to draw from to grab lots of different assets.
So for example let's say you had a bunch of different frames for an animation now rather than saving
each one of those frames as its own document that would take for a really long time for your game to
draw from.
All of those documents and play the animation when you have it all in one document then it can just
cut it out and draw from that one document it makes game play much faster.
And so that's what we're going to create right now.
We're going to create a straight sheet that has each one of these frames on it.
So what we need to do is first we need to crop our image.
So it's as small as it can be.
So I'm going to go ahead and switch over to my frame too because that's where we have the most pixels
coming out because of this outer glow.
And then I'm going to switch over to my crop tool and we're just going to go ahead and drag it in like
so and I'm going to drag it down to about there and I'll drag this side into about there.
Then let's go ahead and hit enter.
Perfect next to what we want to do is we want to create a new document.
But before we do that we need to find out what the exact size of this document is so that we can create
a document that will fit both of them.
So we're going to come up to image and there are going to come down to image size.
And that's our width and height right there so we can go ahead and write that down.
So the width is four hundred and ninety two pixels and the height is 231 pixels.
So our hype is going to stay the same but it's going to double.
So let's go ahead and hit cancel and then we want to go file new document and our new document is going
to be the height that we already have.
So 231 pixels and then the width will double from 490 to pixels.
So that's going to be nine hundred and eighty four and then we want to set our background to transparent.
Because it's a Spryte sheet.
We want all of our backgrounds to be transparent that way.
It doesn't pick up anything that's not part of our asset.
So I'm going to change this from white to transparent.
And then we can go ahead and hit.
OK.
Next what we want to do is we want to make a line right down the center of our document.
That way we can place these in the correct position if you have your button positioned more to the left
side.
And then in the next frame it's positioned more to the right side.
The button is going to look like it's moved and we don't want that.
We want it to be in the exact same spot.
So what we'll do is we're going to grab a ruler and we're going to drag it right to the center and it
should click into place.
Now we can go ahead insert dragging in our folders and toward document.
So I'm going to come back into our file and what we need to do is we need to also grab this gray background
with our folder and you'll see why in a second.
So I want to select both those layers and then I'm going to click and drag them into my other document
and drop them right in onto the document like so and then we can go ahead and take that and position
it.
And now you see why we had to grab that gray background so that it lined up perfectly within this rectangle.
Now that we have the all lined up we can go ahead and come down to that gray background layer and we
can hit delete because we don't need it anymore.
Let's go ahead and grab our second frame now.
So we're going to select my background then holding down control I can select my frame too.
And that allows me to skip frame 1 so whatever I click on while I'm holding down control I can select
those and skip everything in between.
Now let's go ahead and collect those letters and drag them into our document drop them and then I'll
position it right there.
And then I can go ahead and delete that gray background.
Awesome.
So now we have our sprite sheet.
Now in order for your game or for unity to use this right she needs to be saved out as E.P. Angie.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So the way you see it as a parent is by coming up to File Save As and then we're going to save this
out as a play button
spreadsheet
and then we're going to change it from a Photoshop document to a P and G and we'll go ahead and hit
save and hit OK.
And so now we have a flattened version of this that has no layers or folders.
It's just the image itself with a transparent background.
That's what your game is going to need to create.
It's animation.
All right.
That brings us to the end of this project.
Thanks for joining me and I look forward to seeing you again soon.